Board of Directors
Our Board of Directors is integral to the success of our team. They represent a distinguished group of leaders who provide strategic decision-making and thoughtful guidance to ensure that our vision stays on track. They provide business, technology and management expertise as well as non-profit acumen. They’ve built other businesses, and supported other important causes so they know what it takes.

Michael Ball, CEO, Contextual Genomics
Canary Audit Committee

More
An accomplished B2B software executive with a history of scaling global companies from startup through acquisition and IPO. Directed multi-million dollar P&L operations through growth and turnaround to profitability. Positioned companies for successful exit, while serving in lead business development, advisory, C-suite, and board roles. Creates and inspires high-performance cultures with transparency, integrity, determination, and a belief in the positive global impact that great teams can achieve.
Specialties: Healthcare, Genomics, B2B Software, SaaS, Life Sciences, Precision Medicine.

Michael Ball has more than 25 years of international experience in sales, marketing, and business development with technology companies ranging from start-­‐ups to Fortune 500 firms. He is the former long-time CEO of GenoLogics, a company that develops the industry-leading laboratory information management system (LIMS) for life sciences organizations. Michael has been instrumental to the success of GenoLogics, securing significant venture capital and building strategic relationships with key partners and customers in the life sciences industry.

Previously, Michael held executive positions at various technology companies including five years in management with Creo Products (acquired by Kodak) as Vice President Business Development and Vice President European Sales and Service. Michael was a member of Creo’s executive team from 1995 to 2000, during which time the company’s revenue increased from $70 million to $700 million. In addition to his Creo experience, Michael was a Vice President at Carmanah Technologies, spent seven years at Digital Equipment Corp., and has been involved with several technology start-ups.

.

Less
Kevin Kennedy, President, Senior Managing Director, Blue Ridge Partners
Canary Audit Committee, Chair

“I’m proud to serve as a board member for the Canary Foundation, where I’ve been able to see firsthand the innovation that the Foundation and Canary Center at Stanford have brought to the field of early cancer detection.

More
Giving back to the communities where we live and do business has always been a priority for my wife and me.  We’ve been involved with the Canary Foundation from the start and are thrilled to grow that relationship.

Over 30 years’ experience as an executive leading prominent public and private technology and telecommunications companies. Before joining Blue Ridge Partners, he was the CEO of Avaya, Inc., CEO of JDS Uniphase Corporation, SVP of Cisco Systems, and CEO of Openwave Systems. Currently he is on the boards of KLA -Tencor Corporation (KLAC-Nasdaq) and Digital Realty (DLR-NYSE). He is a former member of the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee and Congressional Fellow at the US House of Representatives Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.

He is currently a Senior Managing Director with Blue Ridge Partners, a boutique consultancy focused on top-line growth with a specialty in helping PE backed portfolio companies deal with the challenges of growth initiatives through full life-cycle consulting engagements.

In the field of education, Dr. Kennedy was honored by the School of Engineering at Rutgers as their Alumnus of the Year and awarded an Alumni Medal of Excellence in 2006.

He is the author of “Devil in the Details,” published in 2012, and a co-­‐author of “Going the Distance: Why Some Companies Dominate and Others Fail,” published in 2003. He has published more than 30 papers on computational methods, data networking and issues of technology management.

Dr. Kennedy holds a B.S. in engineering from Lehigh University as well as M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in engineering from Rutgers University where he served as an adjunct professor from 1982 to 1984.

Less
Don Listwin
Founder and Chairman, Canary Foundation

More
Don Listwin is a 30-year veteran of the technology industry.

Currently Don is acting President and CEO of ISchemaView and head of Listwin Ventures; investing in the future. Don has served as CEO of Sana Security, Openwave, and had been the #2 executive at Cisco Systems. Today, in addition to his work at the foundation, he serves on the board of directors of several private and public companies including POET Technologies and Robin Systems.

Don is also deeply involved with other cancer-related organizations. He is on the External Advisory Board for the Center for Cancer Nanotechnology Excellence (CCNE) at Stanford and is a member of the Stanford Advisory Board for the Canary Center for Cancer Early Detection at Stanford. He also serves as a member of The Melanoma Cancer Center at The Moffitt Cancer Center. He was appointed and served on the National Cancer Institute’s Board of Scientific Advisors.

A native of Canada, Listwin holds a B.S. in electrical engineering and an honorary doctorate of law from the University of Saskatchewan.

Read Founder’s Story.

Less
Dale Jantzen
Board Member

More
Dale has over 20 years of product management and marketing experience in the telecommunications industry. He most recently served as the President of the San Jose Grand Prix for three years. Dale earned his BSEE at the University of Saskatchewan in 1982. For the next eight years, he served as Marketing Director for Develcon Electronics. Dale then moved on to hold similar positions at Alberta Microelectronics Center and then at Sci-Tec Instruments Ltd. During Dale’s eight-year tenure at Cisco Systems, he held the positions of Product Line Manager, Director of Marketing, and Director of Business Development. More recently, Dale has served as Director, Product Management for Luminous Networks, Inc., Vice President of Tiara Networks, and Director, Product Management for Procket Networks, Inc.

Throughout his career, Dale has managed large teams of technical product management and marketing professionals, while overseeing multi-million dollar project accounts. Dale possesses a wealth of technical skills and depth of leadership experience.

Less
Hilary Valentine
Board Member

More
Hilary Valentine is a partner at Black & White Design and serves on the Board of Directors of the Valentine Family Foundation. She is co-Founder of Belize Kids with the mission of improving lives for children in Belize. She also serves on the Emeritus Board of Breast Cancer Connections. Hilary is the Chair of the Room to Read Emeritus Board after serving on the Room to Read board of directors from 2003 to 2012. She was Co-­‐Chair of the Board of Directors from 2005 to 2008 and Chair from 2008 to 2010.

Hilary graduated with a B.S. in Psychology from St. Lawrence University.